1. What is the Singleton Pattern?

The Singleton Pattern ensures that only one instance of a class is created and provides a global access point to that instance.
 It is useful for database connections, logging, caching, and configurations.

3. Why is the constructor private in Singleton?

The constructor is private to prevent direct instantiation of the class from outside, ensuring that only one instance is created
via getInstance().

4. What are the problems with a simple Singleton implementation?

A simple Singleton may have issues like:

Thread safety issues in multithreaded environments.
Serialization problems where deserialization can create a new instance.
Reflection API can be used to break Singleton.

5. How do you make Singleton thread-safe?

Use synchronized getInstance() (but has performance overhead).
Use Double-Checked Locking to minimize synchronization.
Use Bill Pugh Singleton with static nested class (best approach).
Use Enum Singleton (100% safe).


6. Can we break Singleton using Reflection? How to prevent it?

Yes! Reflection can break Singleton by calling the private constructor like this:

Constructor<Singleton> constructor = Singleton.class.getDeclaredConstructor();
constructor.setAccessible(true);
Singleton instance2 = constructor.newInstance();  // Creates a new instance

10. When should we NOT use Singleton Pattern?

Avoid Singleton when:

Object is not globally required.
Unit testing is needed (Singleton makes testing harder).
It leads to hidden dependencies in the code


11 .How is this Double-Checked Locking?
    In the given Double-Checked Locking Singleton implementation, we check for null twice before creating the instance.
    Here’s the breakdown:

    Why Two Checks?
    First Check (Outside synchronized)

    Before entering the synchronized block, we check if (instance == null).
    This helps avoid unnecessary locking, improving performance.

    Second Check (Inside synchronized)

    Once inside the synchronized block, we check again if instance is null.
    This prevents multiple threads from creating separate instances in a multi-threaded environment.

    What If We Remove the First Check?

    If we remove the first if (instance == null), every thread will enter the synchronized block, causing performance degradation.
    This defeats the purpose of lazy initialization while maintaining thread safety.

    Why Use volatile?
    The volatile keyword ensures that all threads see the latest value of instance and prevents partial object creation
    due to instruction reordering.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 11. What is Reflection API:

 The Reflection API in Java allows you to inspect, analyze, and manipulate classes, methods, fields, and constructors at runtime,
 even if you don't know their names at compile time.

 12. What is ?

    Class<T> is a generic class that represents a class or interface at runtime.
    ? means "any type" (unknown generic type).
    This allows clazz to hold a Class reference for any type, without knowing the exact type at compile-time.

  13. How to Prevent Reflection from Breaking Singleton

      We can throw an exception inside the constructor if it is already initialized.
      private Singleton() {
              if (instance != null) {
                  throw new RuntimeException("Use getInstance() to create an object");
              }
          }

  14. Why Bill Pugh Is Used?

    Lazy Initialization:

    The instance is created lazily, meaning that it is created only when the getInstance() method is called for the first time.
    This is an advantage over other methods (like using synchronized blocks in a regular singleton) because we avoid unnecessary
    overhead if the instance is never actually needed.

    No Performance Overhead After Initialization:

    Unlike the Double-Checked Locking pattern (which requires synchronization every time the instance is accessed),
    the Bill Pugh Singleton avoids any synchronization mechanisms, resulting in better performance after the first instance creation.
    Once the instance is created, subsequent calls to getInstance() are highly efficient since no locking is required.
